# Ax-to-Grind-Urdu
Ax-to-Grind Urdu: Benchmark Dataset for Urdu Fake News Detection
Fake news (FN) impacts society and affects public opinion, institutional confidence and the political horizon of a state. FN proliferation on online websites and Online Social Networks (OSNs) has increased profusely. Various fact-checking websites include news in English and barely provide information about FN in regional languages. Fake News Detection (FND) counts upon appropriately labelled and large datasets. We curate the Ax-to-Grind Urdu dataset for FND. This GitHub repository corresponds dataset used for our research article titled “Ax-to-Grind Urdu: Benchmark Dataset for Urdu Fake News Detection”. 
Ax-to-Grind Urdu is the first largest multi-domain and cross-domain dataset of 10,083 news items for Urdu Fake News Detection. The news items in the dataset cover fifteen domains, i.e., politics, health, sports, entertainment, technology, weather, agriculture, economy, showbiz, social media, education, women’s rights, religion, foreign affairs and international. The dataset is annotated by expert journalists. The news items are scraped from the year 2017 to the year 2023. The news items are collected from the websites of leading newspapers and news channels from Pakistan and India, as Urdu native speakers come from these two countries largely. Two fine-grained labels, True and Fake, are assigned to each news item and verified through online web sources.

The work has been accepted at The 22nd IEEE International Conference on Trust, Security and Privacy in Computing and Communications (TrustCom-2023).
